= sg-ruby

A SimpleGeo Ruby client.

For the specific documentation on APIs (and the full list of parameters) see:

http://help.simplegeo.com/faqs/api-documentation/endpoints

== Installation

Open the Terminal or other UNIX shell and type:

    sudo gem install sg-ruby

== Examples

Start by requiring SimpleGeo and setting your authentication credentials:

  require 'simple_geo'
  SimpleGeo::Client.set_credentials('token', 'secret')
  
=== Getting a record

  record = SimpleGeo::Client.get_record('com.simplegeo.global.geonames', '5373629')

=== Getting multiple records

  records = SimpleGeo::Client.get_records('com.simplegeo.global.geonames', ['1234', '5678'])

=== Adding a record

  record = SimpleGeo::Record.new({
    :id => '1234',
    :created => Time.now,
    :lat => 37.759650000000001,
    :lon => -122.42608,
    :layer => 'com.example.testlayer',
    :properties => {
      :test_property => 'foobar'
    }
  })
  SimpleGeo::Client.add_record(record)

=== Updating a record
  
  record = SimpleGeo::Client.get_record('com.example.testlayer', '1234')
  record.lat = 40.714269
  record.lon = -74.005973
  SimpleGeo::Client.add_record(record)

=== Adding / updating multiple records

  records = [
    SimpleGeo::Record.new({
      :id => '1234',
      :created => Time.now,
      :lat => 37.759650000000001,
      :lon => -122.42608,
      :layer => 'com.example.testlayer',
      :properties => {
        :test_property => 'foobar'
      }
    }),
    SimpleGeo::Record.new({
      :id => '5678',
      :created => Time.now,
      :lat => 37.755470000000003,
      :lon => -122.420646,
      :layer => 'com.example.testlayer',
      :properties => {
        :mad_prop => 'baz'
      }
    })
  ]
  SimpleGeo::Client.add_records('com.example.testlayer', records)

=== Deleting a record

  SimpleGeo::Client.delete_record('1234')

=== Getting a record's history

  history = SimpleGeo::Client.get_history('com.example.testlayer', '1234')

=== Getting nearby records

See http://help.simplegeo.com/faqs/api-documentation/endpoints for other optional params

  # by lat, lon
  records = SimpleGeo::Client.get_nearby_records('com.example.testlayer', 
    :lat => 37.759650000000001,
    :lon => -122.42608)
    
  # by geohash
  records = SimpleGeo::Client.get_nearby_records('com.example.testlayer', 
    :geohash => '9q8yy1ujcsfm')

=== Getting a nearby address for a lat and lon

  nearby_address = SimpleGeo::Client.get_nearby_address(37.759650000000001, -122.42608)
  
=== Getting SpotRank density information

  # by day
  density_info = SimpleGeo::Client.get_density(37.75965, -122.42608, 'sat')
  
  # by hour
  density_info = SimpleGeo::Client.get_density(37.75965, -122.42608, 'sat', '16' )

=== Other APIs

For more examples see: spec/client_spec.rb 

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Dan Dofter. See LICENSE for details.
